## Object-Oriented Programming 2022/2023

## Lab Sheet <mark>#6</mark>

### Objective

> - Polymorphism
> - Principle of Substitution

## Program

It is intended to implement a Media Player with simulated Live Radio and Stream reading functions.

## Implementation rules

- Accept assignment from GitHub Classroom [**here**](https://classroom.github.com/a/tUUrv__P)
- Clone the repository generated by GitHub Classroom
- Use the BlueJ IDE.
- Implement the required code and test at the end of each level.
- **Update the program version in the repository at the minimum at the end of each level** (it is advised at the end of each successfully implemented and tested feature). It is not necessary to include the compiled files (.class extension) in the version.
- Use the coding conventions adopted for the Java language (see **Notes**).

## Implementation

### Level 1:

1. implement the `MediaPlayer` class with the following attributes: 
  - `volume` ( `int` ) - Value that manages the volume of the media player. Accepted values are between 0 and 30.
  - `muted` ( `boolean` ) - boolean that indicates whether the volume is mute (equal to 0);

2. Create a constructor that does not receive parameters. It should initialize the attributes with the following values:
   - `volume` - 5
   - `muted` - false

  - Also add the usual selector methods and modifiers that you think you need.

3. Create the `increaseVolume()` method to increment the volume by 1 value.
   
4. Create the `decreaseVolume()` method to decrement the volume by 1 value.

5. Create the `whatsPlaying()` method, which should return a string "Nothing to play."

6. Implement the `toString()` method so that it returns information in the following format:

```console
Volume: 5
Nothing to play.
```

7. In the `AppStart` class add an object of type `MediaPlayer` to test the class.


### Level 2:

1. Verify that you already have the `Podcast` class in the project with the following attributes:
   - `title` (`String`) with the title of the podcast

2. Implement the `StreamPlayer` class, which should extend the `MediaPlayer` class, with the following attribute:
   - `podcast` (`Podcast`) - Object of type `Podcast`.

3. Create a constructor without arguments, where you should start the constructor of the `MediaPlayer` class and the `podcast` attribute. Implement the necessary selector methods and modifiers.

4. Rewrite the `whatsPlaying()` method to return the following string:
```console
Stream Player: The Man Who Bit the Dog
```

### Level 3:

1. Verify that you already have in your project the `Station` class with the following attributes:
    - `frequency` (`double`) - value with the frequency of the station
    - `name` (`string`) - value for the station name

2. Implement the `LiveRadioPlayer` class, which should extend the `MediaPlayer` class, with the following attributes:
   - `stationList` - List of stations
   - `currentStation` - Information about the currently selected station

3. Create a parameterless constructor, where you should start the constructor of the `MediaPlayer` class and the `stationList` attribute. Implement the necessary selector methods and modifiers.

4. Rewrite the `whatsPlaying()` method to return the following string, referring to the current station:
```console
Live Radio Player: 103.4: Renaissance
``` 

1. implement the `nextStation()` and `previousStation()` methods, which are used to move to the next or previous station in the station list. If you are at the last station in the list, you should move to the first station, and vice versa.


### Level 4:

1. In the `AppStart` class, in the `main` method, perform the following operations:
   - Using the substitution principle, create an object of type `StreamPlayer`. Pay attention to the static type and dynamic type.
   - Select a podcast from the following list:
     ```java
     List<Podcast> podcasts = new ArrayList<>();
     podcasts.add(new Podcast("O Homem que Mordeu o Cão"));
     podcasts.add(new Podcast("O CEO é o limite"));
     podcasts.add(new Podcast("Portugalex"));
     ```

2. Print to the screen using the `whatsPlaying()` method the result of the `streamPlayer` object
3. Again using the substitution principle, create an object of type `LiveRadioPlayer`.
4. Add the list of broadcasters (example) to the object you created:

```java
   List<Station> stations = new ArrayList<>();
   stations.add(new Station(88.3, "KFM"));
   stations.add(new Station(93.2, "RFM"));
   stations.add(new Station(95.7, "Antena 1"));
   stations.add(new Station(97.4, "Rádio Comercial"));
   stations.add(new Station(101.9, "Orbital"));
   ```

5. Increase the volume of the `LiveRadioPlayer` object type three times
6. On the object of type `LiveRadioPlayer` advance two channels and - each time you perform the operation - print the result of the `whatsPlaying()` method on the screen.

### Level 5:

1. In the `AppStart` class add a list that will receive objects of type `MediaPlayer`.
2. Add to the created list the objects created in level 1,2 and 3
3. Using functional programming, print on the screen the result of the `whatsPlaying()` method of all the objects in the collection.



<mark>**Notes:**</mark>

For identifiers follow the conventions adopted normally, in particular:

1. The notation **camelCase** for the name of local variables and identifiers for attributes and methods.

2. The **PascalCase** notation for class names.

3. Do not use the '_' symbol or abbreviations for identifiers.