## Object-Oriented Programming 2022/2023

## Lab Sheet <mark>#5</mark>

### Objective

> - Introduction to class inheritance

## Program

You want to develop a prototype for a transportation company that owns a fleet of vehicles and airplanes. The vehicles are used in the sale of freight and transportation services, for which they are charged fees that represent their fees. This company has in its fleet a set of vehicles for Ground Transportation and Air Transportation, and the Trucks and Vans are considered Ground Transportation.

## Implementation rules

- Accept the assignment from the GitHub Classroom [**here**](https://classroom.github.com/a/_SCpWq_s)
- Clone the repository generated by GitHub Classroom
- Use the BlueJ IDE.
- Implement the required code and test at the end of each level.
- **Update the program version in the repository at the minimum at the end of each level** (it is advised at the end of each successfully implemented and tested feature). It is not necessary to include the compiled files (.class extension) in the version.
- Use the coding conventions adopted for the Java language (see **Notes**).

## Implementation

### Level 1:

1. implement the `Transport` class with the following attributes: 
  - `id` ( `String` ) - Unique identifier (automatically generated);
  - `origin` ( `String` ) - Identifies the location of the starting point of the transport;
  - `destination` ( `String`) - Identifies the location of the destination point of the shipment;
  - `price` ( `double` ) - The total cost of the shipment;
  - `fees` ( `double`) - The amount of the fee charged by the company (it is a fee applied to the total cost of the shipment);
  - `available` ( `boolean`) - lets you know if the shipment is available.

2. Create a constructor that takes no parameters. This constructor should assign an automatic sequential number to the `id` attribute in the following format: `T-001` (for the first `Transport` created), `T-002` (for the second `Transport` created), `T-003` (for the third `Transport` created) and so on. Attributes of type `String` must be initialized with an empty `String`, fees and total cost must be initialized to `0`, and the Boolean value to `true`.

  - Add the usual selector methods and modifiers as you see fit.

3. Create the `toString()` method in the `Transport` class, which returns attribute information in text form (`String`). Use the `StringBuilder` class for this purpose.

### Level 2:

1. Applying inheritance derive from the `Transport` class classes for `GroundTransportation` and `AirTransportation`, taking into account that each of their instances, in addition to the attributes that characterize the `Transport` class, add the following attributes:

  - For `GroundTransportation`:
    - `licensePlate` ( `String` )- Attribute with the license plate number of the vehicle.

  - For `AirTransportation`:
    - `name` ( `String` ) - Attribute for the name of the aircraft;
    - `numberOfContainers` ( `int` ) - Attribute identifying the number (quantity) of containers.

- Consider that the fee for land shipments is always `3%` and for air shipments is `4%`.

2. 
  
- For the class `GroundTransportation`:    
  - Add to the created class its constructor that takes the license plate number as parameters.
  - Add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need.
  - Create a `toString()` method in the `GroundTransportation` class that returns attribute information in text form (`String`).
    - Note: reuse the identical method developed in level 1 for the `Transport` class.

- For the `AirTransportation` class:
  - Add to the created class its constructor, which receives as parameters the name of the aircraft and the number of containers.
  - Add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need to the class.
  - Create a `toString()` method in the `AirTransportation` class that returns attribute information in text form (`String`).
    - Note: reuse the identical method developed in level 1 for the `Transport` class.


### Level 3:

1. Implement in the `Transport` class a method called `getPriceWithFees` that returns the price of the transport with the fee charged.

2. Implement in the `Transport` class a method called `getTransportType` that returns a `String` with the description of the transport type (remember to develop this method in all derived classes).

3. Also in the `Transport` class, change the `toString()` method so that it shows first the type of transport, and lastly the total price of the transport with the fees charged.

### Level 4:

1. Applying inheritance derive from the `GroundTransportation` class classes for `Lorry` and `Van`, taking into account that each of their instances, in addition to the attributes that characterize the `GroundTransportation` class, add the following attributes:

- For `Lorry`:
  - `numberOfPallets` ( `int` ) - Attribute with the number of pallets in the Truck.
  - `trailers` ( `int` ) - Attribute with the number of trailers on the Truck.

- For `Van`:
  - `packages` ( `int` ) - Attribute for the number of packages the van carries.

2. 
 
- For `Lorry`:

  - Add to the created class its constructor, which receives as parameters the number of pallets, number of trailers and the license plate.
  - Add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need to the class.
  - Create a `toString()` method in the `Lorry` class that returns attribute information as a string.
    - Note: reuse the identical method developed in level 2 for the `GroundTransportation` class.

- For `Van`:

  - Add to the created class its constructor, which receives as parameters the number of packages and the license plate.
  - Add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need to the class.
  - Create a `toString()` method in the `Van` class that returns attribute information in text form (`String`).
    - Note: reuse the identical method developed in level 2 for the `GroundTransportation` class.

### Level 5:

1. implement the class `ShippingCompany` as a subclass of the class `HashSet<Transport>`. It should consider the following attributes:

  - `name` ( `String` ) - Represents the name of the shipping company.
  - `inService` ( `ArrayList<Transport>` ) - stores the airline's transports in service.

2. Implement a constructor that takes for parameters the name of the transporting airline.
3. Implement as many selector methods as you need.
4. Create the `toString()` method in the `ShippingCompany` class that returns information from the various `Transports` stored in the collection.
5. In the main program create an instance of the `ShippingCompany` class for the company named `"RELIABLE-MOVING"`.
  - After this instance is created add to this collection one `GroundTransportation` object, two `AirTransportation` objects, one `Lorry` object, and one `Van` object.
  - Show the created transportations.
  
6. Create the `makeTransportation` method, which takes as parameters the `id` of the transport, the origin, the destination, and the price. If the `id` exists and the transport is available (read, `available=true`) change the values of source, destination, price and availability to `false`. You must then insert this shipment into the `ArrayList` of in-service shipments and remove it from the `ShippingCompany` collection.
  - Note: You need to develop some helper methods (for example, `private Transport getTransportation (String id)`)
7. Create the `finalizeTransportation` method which takes as parameter the `id` of the transport to be finalized. This method removes the transport with its `id` from the `ArrayList` of transports in use.
  - If possible, the transport removed from the `ArrayList` should be changed to an empty `String`, the price to `0.0` and the availability to `true`. After the modification you should insert the shipment into the `ShippingCompany` collection.

<mark>**Notes:**</mark>

For identifiers follow the conventions adopted normally, in particular:

1. The **camelCase** notation for the name of local variables and identifiers for attributes and methods.

2. The **PascalCase** notation for class names.

3. Do not use the '_' symbol or abbreviations for identifiers.