## Object-Oriented Programming 2022/2023

## Lab Sheet <mark>#4</mark>

### Objective

> - Introduction to application design. Intended to begin the design stage of an application, working on only a subset of Project I.

## Work to be delivered

- Text file with:
  
  - the noun/verb analysis;
  
  - the CRC letters

- The outline of the classes involved in the CRC letters

## Implementation rules

- Accept the assignment from GitHub Classroom [**here**](https://classroom.github.com/a/LFsnMEWk)
- Clone the repository generated by GitHub Classroom
- Create the text files with the parsing and CRC letters inside the BlueJ project folder
- Use the BlueJ IDE for sketching the classes.
- **Update the version of the lab work in the repository at a minimum at the end of each level**. 
- Use the coding conventions adopted for the Java language for the code that is created (see **Notes**).

## Problem Description

The object of the project is the development of a simulation of a product distribution center. In this distribution center, products are received in the warehouse at a delivery location and are then transported to the locations where they are stored. The transport is carried out by Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV). The distribution of the products to the sales locations follows an identical process where the stored products are taken from their storage locations and taken to a pick-up location within the warehouse.

### Distribution Center

The distribution center warehouse is a rectangular space that will hold all the elements of the simulation. This space is divided into positions, where each of them represents a 2x2m square area.  The existing elements can be storage places with shelves/ racks to store the products, vehicles that circulate in the warehouse, or the walls that limit the warehouse. In addition, there are spaces for loading and unloading the products that the warehouse contains, and areas in front of the internal storage places to deposit and collect the products.

### Products

For this simulation, products are very simple, characterized only by a name, a unique identifier, their weight and their type. 

### Automatically guided vehicles (AGV)

AGV vehicles are used inside the warehouse to transport products. These vehicles follow predetermined paths between the pickup location and the destination location of the product, or automatically define their route between those locations.  There are different types of vehicles with distinct functionalities:

- **Unit Load Carrier** (Unit Load Carrier - ULC) - This is an AGV used to transport a single product. It has no weight limits for the load carried;
- **Transport Trolley** - Not an AGV. It is used to transport several products up to a weight limit of 200 kg and is pulled by a towing vehicle.
- **Automatic Guided Card** (AGC) - An AGV used to transport light products; it has a total weight limit of 100 kg.
- **Towing Vehicle** - An AGV that does not directly transport products. In this case, it is used to tow a transport cart.

The movement of the vehicles inside the warehouse is done exclusively in the horizontal direction or in the vertical direction. Any one of them moves one position for each step of the simulation, and can turn or stop. All the vehicles occupy one position in the warehouse, i.e. an area of 2x2 meters.

### Simulation

For this simulation a warehouse should be defined. Vehicles and storage locations can then be added to the warehouse created. During the simulation, products will be delivered that have to be stored. A selection of vehicles must be made to transport the products to their storage location. Similarly, several products can be requested from among those in the warehouse. In this case the same vehicles can be used to pick up the products and drop them off at the delivery points. 

For the simulation it will be necessary to define the warehouse with the storage, delivery and product pickup locations and the transport vehicles. During the simulation, products are delivered to storage and requests to pick products from the warehouse are delivered and must be met by the existing vehicles.

### Level 1:

- Copy the contents of the topic "Problem Description" into a word processor of your choice.

- In the copied text, paint all nouns (nouns) green to start getting an idea of the entities involved in the problem.

- Paint all verbs red to begin to get an idea of the actions involved in the project.

### Level 2:

- Copy all the nouns into a list and delete the duplicates.

- Copy all verbs and their associated nouns to another list and eliminate the duplicate actions.

### Level 3:

- Based on the extracted nouns, make a 3rd list in which you identify what you think might become object classes.

- For each of them make the corresponding CRC chart, taking into account only the information available in the Simulation description. You should keep in mind the principle of
  single responsibility principle.

## Level 4:

- Based on the CRC letters of the classes identified in Level 3 define a first
  approximation of the interface of the classes involved (public methods). Create a sketch of the implementation of the class, with its structure, the headers of the public methods, still without the internal code, and the respective documentation of these methods.

### Level 5:

- Create an implementation sketch of the main functionalities identified in the AGC class, with the class structure, the public method headers, still without the internal code, and the respective documentation of these methods.

**Notes:**

For identifiers follow the conventions normally adopted, in particular:

1. The **camelCase** notation for local variable names and attribute and method identifiers.

2. The **PascalCase** notation for class names.

3. Do not use the '_' symbol or abbreviations for identifiers.
