## Object-Oriented Programming 2022/2023

## Lab Sheet <mark>#7</mark>

## Objectives

> - Introduction to the use of abstract classes and abstract methods
> - Introduction to the use of interfaces

## Program

It is intended to develop a prototype to facilitate the provision of various _tours_. The following are provided: guided tours `GuidedTour` and audio tours `AudioTour`, which specialize `Tour`.

It will also be necessary to implement a class representing concerts to be held at Largo José Afonso `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert`.
The program should implement two interfaces: Listable `Listable` and Searchable `Searchable`.
The `Listable` interface will be applied to tours and concerts, which despite belonging to different hierarchies, share the interest of disclosure.
The `Searchable` interface will be applied to classes that group tours and/or concerts.

It should be possible to

- Get various information regarding the tours and also the concerts;
- Search the tours and concerts by various information.

## Implementation rules

- Accept the GitHub Classroom assignment [**here**](https://classroom.github.com/a/lRVBMX52)
- Clone the repository generated by GitHub Classroom
- Use the BlueJ IDE.
- Implement the required code and test at the end of each level.
- **Update the program version in the repository at the minimum at the end of each level** (it is advised at the end of each successfully implemented and tested feature). It is not necessary to include the compiled files (.class extension) in the version.
- Use the coding conventions adopted for the Java language (see **Notes**).

## Implementation

### Level 1:

1. Create a `Listable` interface, with the following constants:
   
   - `STANDARD_HOW_LONG` - has as its value the integer 60 and represents the standard duration in minutes.
   - `STANDARD_HOW_MUCH` - has as its value the decimal number 20.0 and represents the standard price in euros.

2. Define in the `Listable` interface, the following methods:
   
   - `getWhat()`, which returns a String with information about what it is.
   - `getWhere()`, which returns a String with where it is.
   - `getWhen()`, which returns a String with information about when it occurs.
   - `getHowLong()`, which returns an integer with the duration in minutes.
   - `getHowMuch()`, which returns a decimal number with the price in euros.
   - `isFree()`, which returns a boolean (true indicates free).

   
   

### Level 2

1. Define an abstract class `Tour`, with the following attribute:

   - `ID` - a public constant of type String.

2. Implement a constructor that takes the value of `ID` as a parameter.

3. Declare further in the `Tour` class the following abstract method:

   - `getTag()`, which returns a String representing the main characteristic of `Tour`.

4. Implement in the `Tour` class the following methods from the `Listable` interface:

   - `getHowLong()`, which returns the constant `STANDARD_HOW_LONG`.
   - `getHowMuch()`, which returns the constant `STANDARD_HOW_MUCH`.
   - `isFree()`, which returns `false`.
 
### Level 3

- Applying inheritance, derive from the class `Tour` classes for `GuidedTour` and `AudioTour`.

- The `GuidedTour` subclass takes as parameters from its constructor values to be stored in the following attributes:
  - `tag` (`String`) - the main characteristic of the `GuidedTour`.
  - what` (`String`) - a description of the `GuidedTour`.
  - (`where` (`String`) - the location of the `GuidedTour`.
  - `schedule` (`LocalDateTime`) - the date and time of the `GuidedTour`.

**Note:** the ID, to be supplied to the superclass, consists of the string "Guided Tour" concatenated with the order number of the `GuidedTour` instantiation, an automatically generated number with initial value 100. The first instance of `GuidedTour` gets the ID: **Guided Tour 100**.

- After implementing the constructor, add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need.

- Implement all the abstract methods inherited from the `Tour` class.

- Create the `toString()` method in the `GuidedTour` class that returns all the information.

- The `AudioTour` subclass receives as parameters from its constructor values to be stored in the following attributes:
  - `tag` (`String`) - the main characteristic of the `AudioTour`.
  - `what` (`String`) - a description of the `AudioTour`.

**Note:** the ID, to be supplied to the superclass, consists of the string `Audio Tour` concatenated with the order number of instantiation of `AudioTour`, an automatically generated number with initial value 100. The first instance of `AudioTour` gets the ID: **Audio Tour 100**.

- After implementing the constructor add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need.

- Implement all inherited abstract methods.
  **Note:** All the `AudioTours` are located in Setubal and can be run on any day between 8:00 and 20:00. Add two class constants `WHERE` and `WHEN` to hold their values.

- Create the `toString()` method in the `AudioTour` class that returns all the information.

### Level 4

1. implement the class `Listings` which inherits from `ArrayList` of type `Listable`.
2. Implement in this class the `getNumberOfListings()` method that returns the number of objects in the collection.
3. Create the `toString()` method in the `Listings` class that returns information about all the listings in the collection, separated by a blank line. 
4. Also implement the `show()` method that displays the string returned by the `toString()` method of the class itself.
5. In the main method, instantiate `Listings`, add two `GuidedTour` and two `AudioTour` objects. Test all the methods.
6. Create a `Searchable` interface, with the following methods:

- `search(String searchText)`, which returns a list of `Listable`, with all the objects that contain the string to search in the provided information.
- `searchWhere(String where)`, which returns a list of `Listable` objects that occur in the searched location.
- `searchFree()`, which returns a list of `Listable` objects that satisfy the condition that they are free.

7. Implement the `Searchable` interface in the `Listings` class.

8. Test all the methods.

### Level 5

Implement the `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert` class, with the following attributes:
   
   - `who` (`String`) - indicates who will perform at the concert.
   - `schedule` (`LocalDateTime`) - the date and time of the concert.

2. Add a constructor to the created class that will take all the attributes as parameters.

3. Add any selector methods and modifiers you think you need.

4. Implement the `Listable` interface in the `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert` class.
   
   **Note:** All `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert` concerts take place in Setubal, have the standard duration and are free of charge. The description of what is (what) can always be, for example, **Music at José Afonso Square**.

5. Create the `toString()` method in the `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert` class that returns all the information.

6. In the main method, add two `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert` objects to the previous instance of `Listings` (already with `GuidedTour` and `AudioTour` objects). Test all the methods of the `JoseAfonsoSquareConcert` class and test the methods of the `Listings` class again.

**Notes**:

For identifiers follow the conventions adopted normally, in particular:

1. The **camelCase** notation for local variable names and identifiers for attributes and methods.
2. The **PascalCase** notation for class names.
3. Do not use the '_' symbol or abbreviations for identifiers.