## Object-Oriented Programming 2022/2023

## Lab Sheet <mark>#3</mark>

### Objective

> - Iterators and functional processing.

## Program

Prototype of an application to facilitate the management of a streaming service's accounts and related payments.

## Implementation rules

- Accept the GitHub Classroom assignent [**here**](https://classroom.github.com/a/paeiY_2O)
- Clone the repository generated by GitHub Classroom
- Use the BlueJ IDE.
- Implement the required code and test at the end of each level.
- **Update the program version in the repository at the minimum at the end of each level** (it is advised at the end of each successfully implemented and tested feature). It is not necessary to include the compiled files (.class extension) in the version.
- Use the coding conventions adopted for the Java language (see **Notes**).

## Implementation

### Level 1:

1. include the `Account` and `StreamingService` classes provided with this statement in a BlueJ project, which you should create in the local repository (cloned with GitHub Desktop).

2. Change the methods of the `StreamingService` class so that they return fixed values to make it possible to compile the class. For example, methods that return object references return the value `null`, methods that return integers return the value -1, etc.

3. Create the test class `StreamingServiceTest`, for the `StreamingService` class.

4. Create the test method `testConstructor` that tests the constructor. This test method should create the StreamingService object as a Fixture and verify that the object is initialized correctly, that is, that after creation the attribute is not null.

5. Implement the internal code for the constructor and also for the class selector (needed to verify that the constructor has initialized the object correctly).

6. Run the created test (when you complete the implementation of the internal code of the methods used in the test, the test execution should succeed).

### Level 2:

1. Create the test method `testAddAccount`.

2. Implement the internal code of the `addAccount` method.

3. Run all the created tests.

4. Create the `testRemoveAccount` test method.

5. Implement the internal code for the `removeAccount` method.

6. Run all the created tests.

### Level 3:

1. Create the test method `testRemoveUnpaidAccounts` (use objects from Table 1).

2. Implement the inner code of the `removeUnpaidAccounts` method to use an iterator.

3. Run all created tests.

4. Create the `testSetAllAccountsAsUnpaid` test method.

5. Implement the inner code of the `setAllAccountsAsUnpaid` method which should use functional processing.

6. Run all created tests.

| Identifier | Name | Paid |
|:-------------:|:--------------:|:-----:|
| **Account1** | Jose Manuel | true |
| **Account2** | Francisco Silva | false |
| **Account3** | Maria Clara | false |
| **Account4** | Clotilde Matias | true |
| **Account5** | Fernanda Costa | false |

<center><strong>Table 1</strong> - Objects to test the StreamingServiceTest class</center><br/>

### Level 4:

1. Create the `testRemoveUnpaidAccountsRemoveIf` test method.

2. Implement the inner code of the `removeUnpaidAccountsRemoveIf` method to use the `removeIf` method of the collection.

3. Run all created tests.

4. Create the `testGetListOfUnpaidAccounts` test method.

5. Next, implement the inner code of the `getListOfUnpaidAccounts` method which should use functional processing.

6. Run all created tests.

### Level 5:

1. Create the `testCountUnpaidAccounts` test method.

2. Implement the inner code of the `countUnpaidAccounts` method which should use functional processing.

3. Run all created tests.

The `toString` method of the `StreamingService` class must return a string in the format shown in Listing 1.

4. Create the `testToString` test method.

5. Implement the inner code of the `toString` method that should use functional processing.

6. Run all created tests.

``` shell
Streaming service accounts:

paid name
true jose manuel
Francisco Silva false
Maria Clara fake
Clotilde Matias true
Fernanda Costa false
```

<center><strong>Listing 1</strong> - Example of a String to be returned by the toString method for the gym with members from table 1</center>

</br>
</br>

<mark>**Notes:**</mark>

For identifiers follow commonly adopted conventions, in particular:

1. The **camelCase** notation for local variable names and attribute and method identifiers.

2. **PascalCase** notation for class names.

3. Do not use the '_' symbol or abbreviations in identifiers.
